The basic idea is to  identify the number plate and then use this number plate image
with tessaract to get the numbers and alphabets in the license plate.
First we take the given image containing number plate and other details of the car and read it as a numpy array. Now since the license plate number remains unaffected whether the image is coloured or black and white, so we convert images to gray scale.
The advantage the image to gray scale is that it has only 1 layer whereas the coloured image has 3 layers, hence the processing speed is greatly increased by converting image to gray scale. 
The next step is to remove noise from the image. Since the region of interest is not affected by this step so it is better to remove the noise especially from the background.
Now we do the edge detection as the edges are sufficient to identify the number plate and the text(numbers and alphabets) inside it. The whiteness of the number plate nor the blackness(color) of the car is not important for us so we run filters horizontally and vertically to get the image that has only edges.
After getting the edges we do contour identification. Contours are curves joining continuous points having same colorintensity. We pass a copy of the image to the contour identification as the function alters the image. After identifying all the contours we know that one of the contours is the number plate. We also know that the contour corresponding to the number plate is one of the largest in terms of area and perimeter. Another characteristic of the number plate is that it will always be a polygon of four sides(irrelative of different angles, scale and location of the number plate). Hence, we can infer that we can get the number plate by sorting the contours by area  in decreasing order, and taking the contours with 4 closed edges and drawing the rectangular bounding box around  it. This gives us the number plate.
Now to get the text form the number plate we can use tessaract which directly gives the text in number plate in string format.